breaking news in the Middle East Hamas
has announced it has agreed to a ceasefire
agreement proposed by Egypt and cutter we're
waiting to see if Israel will accept the deal
as well Beth Sanner is a former deputy director
of National Intelligence for us she's joining
us on the phone so what's your reaction Beth
let me just read to you a little bit from the
statement that Hamas released the statement said
that uh Ismael hania the head of the political
Bureau of Hamas quote made a phone call to
the Cuttery prime minister shik Muhammad B
Abdul Rahman Alani and to the Egyptian minister
of intelligence Mr AB abas Kamal and informed them
of hamas's agreement to their proposal regarding a
ceasefire agreement what's your reaction Beth well
I think that um first we have to hold our breath
here but I do think that the um Israelis are
likely to sign on since this is the same terms as
far as we know to what they had signed on earlier
so I'm actually pretty hopeful I think that the
military pressure and this idea that the Rafa
operation was about to go forward may have made
the difference the last framework proposal that
uh we know about Beth had the release of 20 to 33
Israeli hostages over several weeks in exchange
for a temporary ceasefire and the release of
Palestinian prisoners being held by Israel uh
and that was supposed to result in ARR restoration
of sustainable calm during which the remaining
hostages captive Israeli soldiers and the bodies
of hostages would also be exchanged for the
release of more Palestinian prisoners that was an
earlier proposal that was clearly discussed with
both cter and Egypt uh if that is the plan right
now and if ifas has agreed to that that would be
a huge development an absolutely huge development
and I think that you know part of the issue here
is that Yaya senoir who is as far as we know still
holed up in southern Gaza um and the political
leadership hania who is the one who said publicly
that they were a go you know they have trouble
communicating uh it's hard for them to do that but
also they're not completely on the same page and
they don't have the same interests in some ways
given that senoir you know is potentially staring
down the barrel of a gun and also the party who
wants to walk away from this and survive so you
know it could be a very big deal and I think that
this delay may have been uh part of the discussion
and trying to hear back from sinir inside of Gaza
Beth standby I want to go to Jeremy Diamond he's
joining us live from Jerusalem right now Jeremy
has there been any reaction from the Israeli
government to what the Hamas has just announced
uh wolther has not yet and so we are applying a
lot of caveats to this this news that is just
breaking at this hour and that is wolf that we
have now heard from Hamas in a statement that
they posted to their telegram Channel saying
that they have agreed to the proposal regarding a
ceasefire agreement isma hania hamas's political
leader speaking to the kaderi Prime Minister as
well as the Egyptian intelligence Chief to relay
that message but as you uh said wolf we have yet
to hear from the Israeli government officially
we have yet to hear from the Americans from the
Egyptians from the cutteries and so we do have
to caveat this this news which does carry with
it uh quite a bit of promise and hope here hope
of course for the hundreds of thousands of people
in Gaza who have endured unspeakable Horrors over
seven months of War as well as for the families
of those hostages Who Remain captive in Gaza who
have hoped and prayed for the day that they
will get to hold their loved ones in their
arms once again uh but what we do know wolf is
that there has been an Egyptian framework on the
table over the course of the last week which uh
officials on all sides had had a lot of hope that
it could potentially uh bring these two sides
together in particular because Israel did make
uh several key concessions including allowing the
return the unrestricted return of Palestinians to
Northern Gaza as part of this latest framework
something that they had resisted for some time
and had been a major sticking point this framework
agreement that was on the table last week would
see the release of some 20 to 33 Israeli hostages
over several weeks uh of of a ceasefire and then
ultimately leading to a longer term ceasefire
perhaps a one-year ceasefire between Israel and
Hamas Israel had not agreed to every point in this
framework but it had uh it did have significant
input in this framework as it was then presented
to Hamas we've watched wolf over the last uh few
days as that optimism around those negotiations
had quickly soured it appeared that Hamas was
sticking to its demand that an end to the war
altogether that Israel commit to that as part
of this agreement something that Israel has
refused to do but now hours after the Israeli
military began dropping evacuation leaflets on
Eastern Rafa ordering a 100,000 civilians to
flee Hamas now putting in a statement hours later
that they have agreed to this initial proposal
we don't know whether that uh evacuation order in
Rafa was the key factor that changed hamas's mind
we also don't know whether any major changes to
this Egyptian framework have been made in order
to get Hamas to agree to it and and like I said
we have yet to hear from all of the other parties
involved so as much as there is a promise
and hope in this statement from Hamas there
is certainly not certainty at this stage wolf
Jeremy I want you to stand by MJ Lee our White
House correspondent is getting more information
us reaction I take it MJ the president President
Biden had a conversation a phone conversation with
prime minister Benjamin nanyu earlier today is
that right that's right we know President Biden
and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
spoke earlier today and of course these ongoing
hostage uh deal negotiations was one of the many
topics that the two leaders discussed as has
been the case for all of their recent phone
conversations uh but what we are waiting for right
now is an official White House and US reaction to
this news that Hamas has apparently agreed to
a temporary ceasefire deal so we'll bring that
to you whenever we have word of that uh but
I heard Jeremy in his last conversation with
you really leaning into the various caveats that
are at play here and I do think that uh kind of a
note of caution from here in Washington is wise as
well that is just to say that we have had moments
like this before in the months of negotiations to
get to a temporary ceasefire and hostages release
deal where we appear to be on the brink of a
deal and other moments where we appear to be
on the brink of these talks completely falling
apart so again as we wait for official US word
and reaction from the Israeli side to this news
from Hamas that they are agreeing to this deal I
do think again just uh leaning into that note of
caution uh is is definitely uh worth doing uh but
uh what US officials have been doing of course in
recent weeks is very much uh pushing hard for this
deal to get done because uh the administration
believes that this is really uh the only clear
way to eventually getting to an end to this War
uh but I can't underscore enough how important it
is for us officials to try to get to that point to
try to get to the point of uh hostages coming out
and this uh this conflict that has been going
on for so many months to come to an end and of
course a big part of that is avoiding a major
Rafa incursion from taking place and of course
the Israelis have been warning for weeks and weeks
now that they are getting increasingly prepared
to go ahead and take that step if this deal does
not come together wolf is the White House still
planning a press briefing at the bottom the hour
in about 15 minutes or so from now MJ yeah that
press briefing has actually been pushed back
to 2:00 so that is when we will hear uh from
National Security Council spokesperson John Kirby
and where we will get an opportunity to press
him on all of these latest developments and of
course we'll be bringing that to you as well wolf